# WebView CG Notes

### Attendees

* Ben Wiser (Google Android)
* Niklas Merz (Apache Cordova)
* Ashley Gullen (Scirra / Construct)
* Florian Scholz (Open Web Docs)
* Carlos Azevedo (Cloudflare)
* Josh Kadis


### Scribes

Ben Wiser (Google Android)


### Agenda & Notes

* **Funding - Open Collective (Ben, Niklas)**
    * Niklas: We investigated into the shared funding and saw that open collective seems like a good option - we can then have shared ownership
    * Ben reached out to people internally. Might be easier for Niklas to make it, to make it easier for Google.
    * Nikas: Knows people from Apache who have set this up in the past
        * Niklas will pick up this work
    * Florian: Open web docs is an open collective so feel free to send me questions
* **WebView Market Share (Niklas, Carlos)**
    * Niklas: We’ve discussed in the past that we need to raise the awareness of WebViews in the past - thought to look for market share data, discovered that cloudflare has data for this
        * Cloudflare doesn’t share WebView data in this report - I reached out to cloudflare about this
    * Carlos: I work on radar, and work on reports to measure search and browser market share ([report link](https://radar.cloudflare.com/reports/browser-market-share-2025-q1))
        * We exclude WebView because it isn’t seen as a browser
        * Everytime we add browsers, we have to clean our data
        * User agents are one of the main fields we use to flag requests
        * This process needs some review
        * Cloudflare is restricted to customers that go through Cloudflare - the data size is big enough to make these reports
        * We make the reports based off the user agent - we use open source libraries to maintain the lists
            * Case study: duckduckgo in the past gave us a heads up for the change in user agent
        * We prioritize client hints over the user agent string
        * I did some exploration of WebView data
            * It is in comparison to other browsers
            * It is just requests so it can be bots etc
            * Compared AndroidWebView and WKWebView
        * One of the reasons to not use WebViews - many different apps are all “WebView”
        * So regarding the question, can we have webviews in comparison to browsers?
            * Yes we can but we need to make a decision regarding if we should include this or not
    * Others have reached out and consider Cloudflare a reliable source of data
        * Different studies have shown different results - always biased by customers
    * Josh: What user agent did you use to identify WKWebView? I’ve had mixed results on this
        * Carlos: I have used this library: [https://github.com/ua-parser/uap-core/blob/master/regexes.yaml](https://github.com/ua-parser/uap-core/blob/master/regexes.yaml)
        * It is easier for me to rely on this public library and change the regex than change internal definitions
    * Ben: 
        * Where can we access this data?
        * Carlos: Niklas has it - he can share it with the group
        * Carlos: I cannot share raw data from Cloudflare, I can give percentages to hide volume
    * Ben:
        * Seems like a consistent challenge - should we as a group define “What is a WebView?”
        * It seems like because there isn’t a definition - WebView gets left out from places like this
    * Niklas: Looking at the data from cloudflare - WebViews are totally a larger platform than some browsers
        * Had the simple question of what data is from WebViews and what is from browsers
        * It isn’t a simple question though
    * Carlos: For Facebook and Instagram - should these be WebViews?
        * Ben: The WebView feels like a separate implementation detail - DuckDuckGo for example uses a WebView, and is a Browser
    * Josh: For some platforms, multiple WebViews might be used for the same resource
        * Ben: I guess that could inflate the data?
    * Ashley: In our work with construct, people often have trouble with out of date WebViews
        * Would be good to understand how many old WebViews are out there
    * Carlos: It should be possible to detect with the regex
        * Ben: User agent reduction will stop us from detecting these versions in the user agent string
        * Carlos: Will need some investigation
    * Niklas: This is great data - let's take action on defining the user agent
        * Carlos: From the Cloudflare side, we are happy to publish as long as we know what we are doing
    * Ben: Would anyone be willing to take a first stab at a “this is what WebViews are” resource?
        * AI: Ashley to take this on
    * Niklas: Presented the Cloudflare data - would be great to provide the WebView CG definition to feed to cloudflare
        * Carlos: Would be great to know if this should be shared with other browsers or if it should be its own section
    * Niklas: Maybe we can group WebViews separately
* **CanIWebView2 MVP (Ashley)**
    * Ashley to demo the CanIWebView2 app
        * [https://github.com/WebView-CG/CanIWebView2](https://github.com/WebView-CG/CanIWebView2)
    * There are several ways to bind a WebView2 to the app
        * Went for win32 - closest as you can get to lowest level
    * Included pre-compiled binaries in the release so folk don’t have to mess around with build tools
        * Will just display web content
    * Main way to control what you want to show is with a json file
        * Will just load the github page if this is not present
    * All the source is in the github repo
        * The source is as small as possible to try make it resharable
    * Ben: Should we promote all these great apps?
        * Perhaps we add a test page on the caniwebview site?
        * Niklas: Not a fan of using the windows store for the distribution method
    * Ashley: Regarding the windows store, it might be tricky to publish because the windows store uses sandboxed apps which makes it hard to have config files
        * Windows currently doesn’t filter for signed executables
    * Ben: Does WebView2 support webdriver?
        * Ashley: Not sure
        * Ben: Happy to look into it
* **WebView Builder (Ben)**
    * Nothing fancy to present, yet…
    * Something experimental landed on Chromium
    * Google is experimenting with adding a WebView builder API to Android
    * Ben is trying to make Google work on Android WebView more public and transparent
    * The group can be more up front and give feedback
    * Android WebView is doing more experimental APIs with AndroidX which makes it easier to share publicly
    * Android WebView is part of the OS with a constructor API
    * The builder API let’s you create WebViews with more control and more efficient
    * Android WebView will introduce policies with (?API Name?) 
    * Josh: Is the new profile API per WebView instance of on a App Level?
    * Ben: It will be set per WebView.
    * Josh: Did you consider having a higher level configuration? As an implementor it could be easier on an app level.
    * Ben: We have considered it but it makes runtime configuration more difficult. A manifest way might be an option at some point.
    * Ben: We will also be providing sensible default with this builder API. Webview builder will have versioning for defaults. This is a place to read from a manifest.
    * Niklas profiles sound cool. How can we try it out at some point. Previously Android was part of the SDK. Slow and difficult. AndroidX can be compiled into the app. Builder will be going to AndroidX and AndroidX is released monthly. 
* **Anything new on CanIWebView?**
    * Search Priority for Web Features
    * Web-feature prefix


### Action items

* Niklas will create an open collective
* Niklas can share data from Cloudflare
* Find definition of a WebView to make use of it in the cloudflare report - Ashley
