# WebView CG Meeting Notes

Juni 16, 2025 15:00 GMT

Link: [https://bit.ly/webview-cg-june-2025](https://bit.ly/webview-cg-june-2025)

### Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org) (Apache Cordova)
* [Dominique Hazael-Massieux](mailto:dom@w3.org) (W3C)
* [Peter Birk Pakkenberg](mailto:pbirk@google.com) (Google)
* Bryan Ellis (Apache Cordova)
* Ashley Gullen
* Ben Kelly (Meta)

### Scribes

* [Peter Birk Pakkenberg](mailto:pbirk@google.com)

### Agenda & Notes

* TPAC 2025 Group Meetings
  * Time to sign up for group meeting slots at TPAC in November
  * Had 2 slots last year.
  * [Dom] Was there last year, very useful. Depends on who will show up this year.
  * Deadline for filing is June 20!
    * Registration for TPAC is later
  * Cost of request is that we might deprive a different group of a slot, should only be done if we have a reasonable chance of needing it.
  * [Ben] Meta will be attending TPAC in general, would be interested in attending.
  * [Niklas] Would be interested in travelling to Japan and attending TPAC, but not committed yet.
  * [Ben] If we only have a small group, it might be better to schedule a topic during the unconference day.
  * [Dom] Supports requesting a single slot, and using unconference/breakouts for coordination.
  * TIMING:
    * Avoid overlap with WebDX group
    * Find a time slot that is open for remote joining from Europe, i.e. late in the day.
* Chairing
  * Ben Wiser has left the chair (and Google).
  * What is the process for picking a co-chair?
  * [Dom] If you are interested, get in touch with Niklas or Dom to nominate yourself (or a colleague).
  * Niklas may reach out to members to ask for co-chairing
* Funding
  * Still ongoing, not impacted by Ben’s departure.
  * Niklas and Dom are administrators of the funding, not connected to being a chair.
* WebView Definition
  * [https://github.com/WebView-CG/usage-and-challenges/issues/49](https://github.com/WebView-CG/usage-and-challenges/issues/49)
  * -> [https://github.com/WebView-CG/webview-definition](https://github.com/WebView-CG/webview-definition)
    * Comment on the PR: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/webview-definition/pull/1](https://github.com/WebView-CG/webview-definition/pull/1)
  * [Ashley] Should we just adopt the proposal as-is, since there have not been any comments?
    * [Niklas] Not quite, there was a discussion of this during the last meeting. The PR above is a rewrite of Ashley’s definition with those discussion points taken into consideration.
  * [Ben] The initial proposal’s focus on just a URL bar is a bit too narrow, as there are “browsers” that do not have URL bars, e.g. AI chatbots. The proposal in the issue above that focuses on the behavior of allowing the user to navigate beyond the initial page is better. Want to make sure that the Meta view of a browser aligns with this definition.
    * [Ashley] Yes, the ability to follow links is a reasonable definition, and if the Facebook browser allows this, then it should be considered a browser. The Cordova application does not allow free browsing of the internet, and should be considered a WebView
  * [Bryan] It is a bit confusing, because Cordova has an in-app browser component which is built on top of WebView, so the terms definitely get mixed. Have had trouble distilling a concise opinion on this ambiguity. It boils down to component (WebView) vs. full application (Browser).
  * [Peter] The confusion might be cleared up if we first agree why we are defining WebView - is it to delineate what this CG cares about, or what the user perceives?
  * [Ben] Agree that the “why” is important. There is a technology vs. use case overlap in naming things as well.
  * [Bryan - Chat] I thought the original question was how to create a market share to show how much WebViews are used vs browsers. And then the thought was to check against UA?
  * [Dom] It is partially to help with analytics use cases. For example, to make it clearer for web analytics to show how often a page is rendered in a WebView. Essentially in the 3P content browsing case.
  * [Ashley] When writing the definition, it was a non-goal to define types of WebView, but only to make a distinction between a browser and a WebView. It is important to have a simple definition of the difference, that can be applied quickly and in a way that can be agreed upon.
  * [Ben] So, the idea is to let sites be able to tell if they are loaded in a WebView-based browser. This feels a lot like UA sniffing. How does this differ from a new browser? Why do we special case WebView?
  * [Dom] For context, one of the motivations for this CG to exist in the first place is that a lot of people do not appreciate that a lot of the traffic they receive are from browsers they do not know exist, since it is coming from WebView-based browsers.
    * It may not be the correct solution to surface this difference through the user agent, but it is important to start the conversation
  * [Ashley] I wanted to collect market share data for WebView. Cloudflare does have this type of data, but were not sure what they should put in the WebView bucket, i.e. how to categorize traffic.
    * Maybe we need different definitions for different use cases? Market data vs. user agent.
    * The definition should still be simple.
  * [Peter] It probably does depend on the use case. For claiming market share, it might be easiest (and beneficial) to capture everything coming from a WebView.
  * [Ben] Concerned that if we are classifying Facebook Browser as a WebView, it causes problems. It is acting as a browser, and should be treated as such.
    * For market share, it depends on whether the website owners care more about the technology in use?
    * This should not make a proscriptive statement about the use cases allowed in those apps.
  * [Bryan] For market share, we also have the challenge that WebViews allow developers to change the UA string. Essentially, we need 3 buckets: Browser, WebView, and “Unknown” for any UA strings that do not match the known strings from the other groups. Vendors could then reach out and request to be reclassified.
    * The original goal was to show just how important WebView is. That said, looking at UA strings is not a solid solution.
  * [Ashley] To recap: We cannot rely on specific technologies for definitions, so cannot name specific WebView implementations. The market share question is interesting, but probably cannot rely on our definition for that purpose. Our definition should not rely on messy UA strings either.
    * We may want to separate technical usage statistics from a Browser vs. WebView user-facing behavior.
    * There are many gray areas in this definition work.
    * Cordova apps will not appear in usage statistics for browsing the web at all, since it is all local.
    * The aim should be to define WebView in a W3C specification sense.
  * [Niklas] The definition itself should stand alone, and should not be written to serve the market share question directly.
    * Getting the consequences of the definition into the tech explainer is also important.
  * [Dom] We should take care to differentiate the use cases of open web browsing vs. local content. For example by giving recommendations for each use case - e.g. to not allow open browsing in a WebView that is meant to only load local content.
  * [Ben] Meta browser user agent strings:
    * [https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1003821910638765](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1003821910638765)
  * [Ben] Bigger question about the scope of the CG: We are not trying to achieve interoperability between different WebView implementers, and this group is not supposed to be the forum to e.g. file Android or iOS WebView feature requests.
    * [Dom] Ideally, that would be the end state. We would like to drive the ecosystem towards similar/interoperable semantics in different WebView implementations.
  * [Peter] Maybe a very simple definition based on what can be loaded:
    * Local content -> WebView
    * Only Owned origins (e.g. Amazon app loading [amazon.com](http://amazon.com)) -> WebView
    * Can load non-owned origins (e.g. chat app that opens links in a WebView) -> Browser
  * [Ben] Recommendations based on use case and common mistakes would be a good work product

### Action items

* [niklasmerz@apache.org](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org) to request a single session at TPAC for the community group.
* Ben: Add link to list of Meta browser UA strings
  * [https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1003821910638765](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1003821910638765)
* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org)Follow up meeting on Definition & recommendations document
