# [TPAC] WebView CG Notes

Nov. 14, 2025 14:00 GMT+9

Link: [https://bit.ly/webview-cg-tpac25](https://bit.ly/webview-cg-tpac25)

Notes on GitHub: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2025/2025-10-17.md](https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2025/2025-09-12.md)

### Queue

### Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org) (Apache Cordova)
* Bryan Ellis (Apache Cordova)
* [Dominique Hazael-Massieux](mailto:dom@w3.org)(W3C)
* Karl Dubost (Apple)
* Kadir Topal (Google)
* Ben Kelly (Meta)
* Andrew Comminos (Meta)
* Sam Weiss (Meta)
* Brady Duga
* Scott Myers (Google)
* Megumi Tsunoya
* Ricky Mondello (Apple)
* Felipe Erias (Igalia)
* Brian Kardell (Igalia)
* [Hadrien Gardeur](mailto:hadrien.gardeur@edrlab.org) (EDRLab)
* Vadim Makeev (MDN)
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei)
* Reilly Grant (Google)
* Siyaman Sadagop
* Denken Chen
* Sam Richard (Google)
* Rick Viscomi (Google)
* Florian Scholz (Open Web Docs)

### Scribes

* Niklas: CanIWebiew website taking inspiration from CanIWebiVew. Its tools for getting support data that is not available on MDN or other resources.
* CanIWebview has different types of docs.
  * Fully detailed listed by BCD keys.
  * WebFeatures is a higher level.
  * We can see for example the a tag is full supported between browsers and webviews. It might look different for other web features.
  * The matrix table is interesting as we can see some things are supported in browsers and not webviews and vice versa.
  * One example is the clipboard. We can see partially supported in Android WV, fully supported in iOS WKWebView,...
* Brady: Is there a way to break the data down by versions?
  * Niklas: We currently do not have the ability but something we can look into.
* Niklas: We have this top score on the home package the the website.
  * If we have a closer look at the keys, we can see a small number of features not supported.
* Ben Kelly: What is low and high
  * Dom: Baseline has this label that we can assign to web features available across all the major vendors. There are two labels, newly and widely.
* Nik: The whole point of highlighting all this is to point out the ambiguous.. MS documented the difference between Edge and WebView2 and we are hoping to also implement this into CanIWebView.
* Niklas: This is a number of questions we got from Tony.
  * How do we define and label things? What makes the difference? What is webview and baseline? Should we have our own webview baseline?
* Ben: WebView Configurations? How is it documented? (confirm)
  * How do we want to reflect in the data if it is configurable or not. Look at default configurations? Look at everything turned off?
  * Kadir: We had this also with accessibility data. Breaking expectations…. There is… One thing that might make sense is what is the browser we need to pull into this as the core set. It was based on user research and multiple surveys between developers. What do they need before they start using features and it is different from market shares. Developers don't follow just market shares but there is might share. We have to reflect how developers think about this today. We didn't want to update developers' models on what browser or environments they should care about but reflect on how they think about it. Educate why WebViews are important.
* Reilly: WebViews can different between the desktop but the question is the features not applicable or a different set of baseline?
  * Kadir: Only about 12 features where this comes up and 6 of them can be said it doesn't make sense in one format or the other. Since there are so few features we didn't set that to complicate the baseline.
  * Niklas:
  * Dom: Browser is based on a webview or how much it impacts the distinction…
  * Ben: There are different use cases - it is a persistent problem that leads to a lot of confusion.. In chrome things come to webview typically.
  * Sam Richard: There are things that have UI that tend to be lagging between WebView and Browser. Because implementing things in both treat them as browsers in both .. it is not chrome, it is chromium, they get their own feature flags that get turned on or off. So there are a number of differences beyond the UI.
  * Ben: Are we continually diverging or closing gaps,or …..
  * Sam: 30 to 50% more effort to launch things on the WebView.
  * Niklas: If there is public information in the blink process like a checkbox, could we somehow look at this data to make it available information.
  * Niklas: Baseline and core browser set, what should be considered what is a core browser set. Which webviews should we define in the browser set? Should we look at market share? Should we not entirely base it on market share.?
  * Kadir: It might have been easier in the browser space but not perfect, but we found out that developers do not think about the engines but the browser. That is why Edge and Chrome are separate. Another thing that was helpful was the browser mapping so we can just look at the core browser set. Every other browser can be mapped to one of the two core browser set when trying to look at what general users can be reached. The core part of this is talking with developers. We get about 80% of agreement.
  * Dom: we need to distinguish between webview-based browsers which impact the "Baseline" status (because of the gap between engine and webview availability), and the case of the developer that is building towards webview specifically and needs to know how to constrain their work ("webview available") - which might need more research on how developers perceive
  * Brian: It feels like an overloaded term to discuss. When I bring this up to my team at Igalia who deal with both - this came up as well, the confusion that is causes on what we are talking about.
  * Kadir: For webviews features do we tag whether the lack of support of a given webview is a bug or intended… it's useful in the context of the interop project to understand whether additional efforts could help get higher interoperability
  * Brian: Is there a way to know when a browser has said they won't implement something?
  * Kadir: we have a mapping between web-features and "standards position"; maybe something similar could be done with webviews
  * Niklas: that information would be very useful for me as someone building on webviews
  * Kadir: there are classes of features disabled in webviews; it might be useful to have documentation on that as part of an education towards Web developers, which might make it easier to identify unintentional gaps (which are more bugs)
  * Ben: apps building on webviews can work around this
  * AndrewComminos: what things aren't happening in WebViews today due to architectural considerations vs how the WebVIew the product is being used? E.g. in-app browsers don't really care about PWA
  * Niklas: we tried to get to a conclusion on this classification of webviews, nearly converged in a doc, but got sidetracked
  * Dom: we should agree on well-known terms to avoid getting stuck there again and again
  * AndrewComminos: ..
  * Ben: Is that basically a user-agent discussion? Because people can change the user-agent string easily.
  * Dom: Today all the things you can enable or disable are granular. Otherwise this baseline compat. Getting it as close to a browser… Webviews are being as minimal as possible..
  * Andrew: a lot of WebView-based developers don't implement basic features, like window.open
  * Karl: is this for users? For developers?
  * Dom: this "baseline webivew" configuration would give you the thing that developers who want to use a webview to display 3rd party content from the open web to get as close to the a regular browser as possible and thus get the most compatible configuration; it would also help talk about webview configurations (between default and "baseline-compat")
  * Kadir: clarifying audiences - e.g. you don't want to expose regular web developers to the level of details in WPT, they want caniuse level granularity
  * Niklas: a bit more difficult in the WebViews context since webview developers typically have needs at these different levels of granularity
* Contributing back to web-features & BCD
  * Kadir: no version information in BCD atm - is this because it's hard to get the data? Or a temporary milestone?
  * Niklas: we focused on the current version given our resources
  * Dom: how hard would it be to get the BCD collector on older versions?
  * Niklas: focusing already on automating on current versions; can look into the past, but that might be difficult; but at least we can track versions moving forward
  * Ben: how sync'd are webview engines with platform engines?
  * Andrew: for the most part, well sync'd
  * Ben: so new devices get the latest webviews nowadays
  * Brady: there were unadaptable webviews; not sure if that's still the case
* Recap of WebViews-related discussions at TPAC
  * Niklas: we have  apps on iOS/Android/WebViews to help test WebViews with different configuration profiles that I presented at the WebView quirk and testing. Take away from mini app meeting is they have similar issues on interop/documentation
  * Dom: Isolated web apps would bring in new APIs that would replace native APIs that would be brought in through frameworks. If it was made available and doesn’t require native implementation it would be a win. Another interesting comparison is that isolated web apps would have this notion about browser in a browser though a controlled frame
* Charter review
  * Dom: The goals needs to be slightly edited to try to identify correctly the use cases - we haven't excluded the browser use case from our work
  * @@@: Is Electron a WebView?
  * Bryan: Electron uses Chromium which has a WebView.
  * Dom: One thing regards to the scope of work, we haven't done but develop technical proposals to try and address challenges that affect webview. But we have focused and worked on the first two items. (see slides for items)
  * Niklas: Appears no changes needed for the out of scope section.
  * Dom: There is still a lot of data design that needs to be done. The date was of the first milestone, but there is a lot of work still TBD; no need to worry about the charter
  * Dom: I think it's worth updating the usage & scenario doc with our vocabulary to describe the major webview use cases we keep tripping upon; and perhaps describe some of the ideas that emerged today (e.g. a webcompat configuration mode for webviews, tying it to web user agent duties)
  * Florian: there is a discussion in the TAG interested explaining how pieces of an app can be a user-agent; it would be nice to tie this to the group
  * Niklas: this was based on our group reaching out to the TAG to surface that challenge; I talked with Jeffrey, this is still ongoing work that will get integrated into the document they plan to publish
  * Dom: There could be small changes that we could make to the charter but since they are small and the process to make changes to the charter might take time, we could make a PR but wait to re-charter
* Upstreaming WebViews data to BCD
  * Niklas: which if the canIWebView should be upstreamed to BCD?
  * Florian: I'm not the publisher, I help maintain the data; we have added data on WebView on iOS and Chrome on MDN now; we could discuss with can I Use; also ongoing conversation about Baseline. Are there specific sites/tools where adding that data would make sense?
  * Florian: mostly trying to understand where things should stay on canIWebView vs the broader web; good to hear there are no technical reasons to get them to use it
* Chairing
  * Niklas: been chairing for 2 years, and have been running it alone for a few months now; we have a good group of implementors, users, supporting organizations - would benefit from the support of a co-chair
  * Dom: really important to have this work supported by more than one person for sustainability and impact
* Workstreams
  * Niklas: the WebDX CG is organized in two workstreams
  * Kadir: WebDX has a research and a web-feature work streams, reflecting the two goals of our charter. Research includes a number of State of * surveys, short MDN surveys, and the other workstream (Baseline) needed more time and more meetings. Main group meetings every other week, and the alternate week focused on web features / baseline.
  * Dom: interesting to align with WebDX design of its workstreams (research / documentation & adoption); not sure we have enough people showing up to divide our meetings. But taking inspiration on how WebDX does it (incl on running surveys, research pain point) sounds worth investigating
  * Kadir: doing a good survey is really difficult to set up, getting the right participation; it might make sense to look at integrating WebView into State of HTML
  * Dom: What would be the process to get a slot in the State of HTML survey.
  * Kadir: There is a github issue that goes up to get ideas for the next survey. In the meantime, the survey can only tell you the relationship but might not tell you why. Prepare to talk with 4 or 5 developers to get an idea of the type of data you might get from the survey to see if the finding you get from the interviews.
  * Niklas: sounds like a great idea; will take an action item to follow up on this

### Agenda & Notes

* CanIWebView improvements

  * Niklas: We have good data for support status for WebViews and bringing it together with BCD and everything
* WebViews and Baseline

  * Some data and graphs about web features in WebViews and changes to Baseline status
  * Configurable features
  * Contributing back to WebDX
  * Discussion
* Recap & follow up WebViews in breakouts
* Charter review
* Chairing the CG
* New work streams?

### Action items

* Niklas: Survey WebView developers to gather questions for MDN short survey
