# WebView CG Notes

Apr. 3, 2026 15:00 GMT+0

Link: [https://bit.ly/webview-cg-2603](https://bit.ly/webview-cg-2603)

Notes on GitHub: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2026/2026-04-03.md](https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2026/2026-02-27.md)

### Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org) (Apache Cordova) @niklasmerz
* [Dominique Hazael-Massieux](mailto:dom@w3.org) (W3C) @dontcallmedom
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei) @espinr
* Heath Borders (Twitch)
* Aram Zucker-Scharff (Washington Post)

### Scribes

* Martin Alvarez (Huawei) @espinr
* Niklas Merz

### Agenda

* News from the ETSI standard for CRA
* [New WebViews on CanIWebView](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/pull/67)
* Breakouts & MiniApps collaboration -> Embedded Web CG/WG?

### Minutes

### News from the ETSI standard for CRA

* Niklas: Provided feedback on the ETSI standard for CRA
* … good news because discussions motivated a new standard focused on Browser/WebView
* … good to be in the loop with EU regulations.
* ….fully-fledged WebViews are out of scope for the standard as of today
* …browser like WebViews are in scope and will be covered the new standard in development right now
* …brings attention to security for WebViews!
* Niklas: +2 new WebViews in CanIWebView.
* … we can push also the info to BDC
* … please, support with review and feedback.
* … It will be great to speak to Igalia

### Embedded Web at Breakouts Day

* Martin: only a few people attended the Embedded Web breakout session, but with positive feedback - lots of shared goals & activities across the different approaches (IWA, miniapps, PWA, webviews), so we're considering expanding the work currently done in the miniapps WG to encompass these and new trends (e.g. generative UI). Topics include apps distribution, different security models - the latter being always contentious when moving away from the origin-based security model. Good contributions from participants, but no concrete next requirements for next steps yet. Not clear if we want to continue the existing MiniApps WG deliverables and expand them, or start with something anew. One thing that clearly needs attention is a security model that works across different types of embedded web apps.
* Niklas: what's next?
* Martin: scheduling discussion with MiniApps co-chairs & community to gauge interest on expanding scope; if we go there, this will require significant changes to the current WG, likely a new group
* Dom: The process to form a new group is writing a charter, getting review from the community, then run by the AC
* Getting a CG or repurpose the High Performance CG might be important, having a CG paving the path might be more successful
* Solving the security model has been formed a few times
* Martin: Issues with commitment in mini apps. Writing the spec is easy but implementing is difficult
* Mini apps started with ¾ vendors with the goal of forming the standards.
* Aram: Is mini apps too specific context to get wide attendance?
* Martin: Broadening the scope might be good
* Dom: I like the idea of a embedded web CG/WG, First step would be to create a landscape of what is there and how their security models work
* Example: WebView has no security models, IWA has a pretty clear security model, find intersections of target ecosystems
* Where is the shared interest? Building something together builds momentum
* Landscape: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/tpac/blob/main/TPAC-2024/Breakout/BreakoutNotes.md](https://github.com/WebView-CG/tpac/blob/main/TPAC-2024/Breakout/BreakoutNotes.md)
* Starting with landscape and then where does security lack
* What could each ecosystem gain? Not every ecosystem needs to re-implement their security model.
* Dom: The security model of the web is well understood. Based on per origin
* Can we figure out a set of use cases that have a similar threat model to come up with a similar security model?
* Who is the attacker?
* Martin: We need to find business interest to make standards that get implemented?
* I will raise this at a higher level with the idea to get participants
* Aram: Many people are interested in using WebViews more predictably
* Where the similarities are is an interesting question?
* Niklas: Servo is a great opportunity to build WebViews in a new way.
* Keep us  in the loop how talking to more parties and the AC goes
