# WebView CG Notes

Feb. 27, 2026 15:00 GMT+0

Link: [https://bit.ly/webview-cg-2602](https://bit.ly/webview-cg-2602)

Notes on GitHub: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2026/2026-02-27.md](https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2026/2026-02-27.md)

### Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org) (Apache Cordova) @niklasmerz
* Heath Borders (Amazon Twitch) @[hborders](https://github.com/hborders)
* Bryan Ellis (Apache Cordova) @erisu
* Martin Robinson (Igalia) @[mrobinson](https://github.com/mrobinson)
* Andreu Botella (Igalia) @andreubotella
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei) @espinr
* Prashant Patil ( Thoughtspot)

### Scribes

* Martin Alvarez

### Agenda

* Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) ETSI Standards for Browsers -> [WebViews in ETSI Standards](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dwbI8srfE1-T_nHcVtLZdmg4LD6WHSiWQZQ1zSKI51A/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Usage and challenges report](https://webview-cg.github.io/usage-and-challenges/)traction, final?
* [WebView native bridges](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/9)
* [Breakouts Day](https://github.com/w3c/breakouts-day-2026)
* [Heath Borders] Any progress on [Render WebView Components and Native Components in same layer](https://webview-cg.github.io/usage-and-challenges/#render-webview-components-and-native-components-in-same-layer)?
* Developer signals for WebViews?
* 

### Minutes

* [Intro]
* Martin Robinson (Igalia) intro, as new member in the group.
* Andreu Botella: Igalia too, Chair of WinterTC. Working on standardizing the APIs in server-side runtimes (e.g. Node.js, Deno). So far we’ve been developing a subset of JS, but we want to add other APIs similar to IWA, and we want to align. I see some synergies with the activities here, MiniApps and so on
* Heath Borders: Twitch. We are trying to use WebView and investigate for media operations.
* … Found CanIWebView? And we decided to join and see what is going on here.
* [no more introductions]
* Niklas: First meeting of the year.
* … A bit of intro.
* 

#### Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) ETSI Standards for Browsers

* CRA update:I want to review it and see the impact of WebViews.
* Some slides about CRA:
* Niklas: I came to it at FOSDEM
* … Can we contribute from WVCG?
* … See the document linked from the notes
* … Vertical standard for browsers, independently of W3C standards. WebViews are part of this.
* … Timeline: see the slide (one month)
* … We have definitions of WebViews in our CG; ETSI standards also define WebViews.
* … this also affects Super/MiniApps. At the end are embedded browsers
* … Basically is about the security challenges in these browsers
* … The definitions in this ESTI standards and our CG are quite similar
* … Any challenge/contribution/questions? Should we involved?
* Martin: Any risk/misalignment you see in terms of standards?
* Niklas: It seems to be aligned, not big gaps observed. Other W3C groups are handling this as well.
* Brian: Some advice currently from LF. Basically is about interpretation of CRA
* … I would encourage people to look at it and think if anything could be problematic.
* … Look at it and give feedback.
* Niklas: Please have a look. Something interesting is what is under scope and what is not.
* … For browser there are other parts to check.
* … Next month will be critical. Happy to connect people.

#### [Usage and challenges report](https://webview-cg.github.io/usage-and-challenges/)

* Niklas: some people has started to look at it.
* … I want to kick off again this report, with the objective to update the status (now in draft)
* … Objective: Final Report.
* … Any comment on the status, have you read it, comments?
* Martin: I’ll ask my colleagues to have a look and provide comments
* Niklas: Perfect, better to have a solid version (and tag it as final), we can create a subsequent version later
* Brian: what advantage to move to final report?
* Niklas: Long time we haven’t touch it, so we can express that is updated
* … Not familiar with the process of other groups.
* Brian: I have to review the document. Drafting for me is fine
* … This is a study, you might click final and it something new appears.
* Niklas: a living document/report would sound correct.
* … The CG program is reviewing the process
* … I would like to see interaction here.
* 

#### Exploration IG - Native Bridge API for WebView Integration

* Niklas: I found this proposal [WebView native bridges](https://github.com/w3c/exploration-ig/issues/9)
* … Should we collaborate with the authors of this proposal?
* … Please have a look.
* … WinterTC Mentioned in the issue as well
* 

#### W3C Breakouts Day

* Niklas: 25-26 March
* … Opportunity to submit a proposal
* Martin: Idea of proposing a session about the convergence of MiniApps WG activities as we discussed at TPAC. We want to broaden the scope.
* … I’ll draft one to include both requirements for this group and MiniApps CG/WG
* Heath: About submitting proposals, I just read it.
* … Please add your GH usernames to tag you
* Niklas: I can provide usernames
* Heath: I have something in mind
* … Rendering web and native components in the same layer
* … Video players, that could perform web animation over the native player, for instance.
* Niklas: This could be useful for the use cases and challenges report.
* … We collected this in the document
* 

#### WebSignals for WebViews?

* Niklas: Last thing is websignals.
* … Web Features explorer > Developer votes
* … People can vote and get reactions, show interest on the features.
* … This can be reflected in canIWebView. To get the perception of the real needs of the developers
* … These might be data/facts to motivate the implementation of these features.
* Heath: What are web signals?
* Niklas: Web features are the core elements of the CanIWebView
* … we can include voting on the features.
* Brian: These votes would apply to browsers?
* [... it could be interesting to know what is really affecting the users]
* … Perhaps you are interested in mobile rather than desktop
* … Voting system could be more reliable.
* Bryan Ellis: It like interacting on the GH issues/comments.
* … this can be used as a mean to understand the real perception/needs of the developers.
* … Perhaps the fine-granularity could be too much (many reactions)
* … But this could be useful information
* Brian: Those signals are good for prioritizing the features
* … that is the main purpose. Microsoft implemented user voice, allocating limited points to force prioritization.
* … WebDevX has been investigating this. WebKit bugs can provide helpful information already
* Heath: What is the complete cycle to build a new feature
* … Are these signals affecting the implementation?
* Brian: These are only signals
* … As an example, MathML was one of the top bugs in Chromium for years… But it was not a priority. This is one of many, many signals
* Heath: I’m wondering how this could affect Apple
* Brian: WK does not come with the binding to the OS
* …[explanation of the WebKit project and dependencies, involvement of Apple in the project…]
* Niklas: @@@ - my computer went black
* … can look into attaching issue/bug tickets on caniwebview
* … We should investigate this first in detail

#### AOB

* Niklas:
* …Another meeting next month.
* … Any suggestion about the timeslot?
* Andreu: WinterTC meetings overlaps
* Niklas: We can move it. Just reach me out.
* … Monthly meetings
* Andreu: I would not attend every meeting…
* Niklas: Is there a public calendar I could check?
* … We are on slack (W3C Community)
* Heath: Please send me an invite
* [... discussion about the permissions to attend the meetings]
* Niklas: I’ll fix it.
* Thank you

### Action items
<!--  -->
* Martin to review document by the next meeting
* Niklas: Check calendar
* Niklas: Check if we can show bug tracker links for BCD