# WebView CG Notes

Juni 8, 2026 15:00 GMT+0

Notes on GitHub: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2026/2026-06-08.md](https://github.com/WebView-CG/meetings/blob/main/2026/2026-06-08.md)

### Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org) (Apache Cordova) @niklasmerz
* Bryan Ellis (Apache Cordova) @erisu
* Florian Scholz (Open Web Docs)
* Shubham Gupta (Huawei) @shubhamg13
* Brian Kardell (Igalia) @bkardell

### Scribes

* Florian Scholz

### Agenda

* Sessions at WebEngineHackfest & TPAC
* [Embedding The Web](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S4VLCTA1MYOkf4-aNHDSGu_9Joeymxho9FByVdomftw/edit?usp=sharing)
* New WebViews on CanIWebview [https://espinr.github.io/Compatibility-Data-Project/clients/arkweb/](https://espinr.github.io/Compatibility-Data-Project/clients/arkweb/)

### Minutes

* Brian and Niklas will be at WebEngineHackfest.
* Potentially discussing Embedding The Web
* Brian: The attendee list is publicly available, [webenginehackfest.org](http://webenginehackfest.org)
* Brian: Maybe reach out to people who are interested, and who are worth to be included in the definition discussion
* Brian: E.g. Microsoft who did window decoration, etc. Bloomberg as well
* Niklas: Please introduce me to people
* Niklas: Should we propose breakout sessions?
* Brian: The schedule is already set
* Brian: We can have hallway discussion
* Niklas: Would be great to talk to IWA folks
* Brian: Getting people involved from WPE platform APIs
* Niklas: I proposed a session for Servo and WebViews
* Niklas: TPAC: We have upvotes for a breakout at TPAC. Thoughts on what to propose? Joint session?
* Brian: Need engine maintainers in the room
* Niklas: I’d vote for a joint session with MiniApps and other groups
* Florian: For now you just need to secure your spot, you can fill out the session details later
* Niklas to secure the spot
* Niklas: Embedding the Web: New CG, figuring out the scope, still thinking about the name and who to involve
* Florian: I like the compat track :)
* Brian: A bit confused about the compat track. What is the plan? Get things into BCD?
* Niklas:
* Brian: Different packaging, is it even possible or desirable to standardize?
* Brian: Can we work together to define something useful?
* Brian: Do we want a CG or a WG?
* Niklas: I like how WebAssembly does this
* Niklas: For now I think we need to be clear on what we want to do and standardize
* Florian: WebDX has a roadmap and goals, keeps people engaged
* Niklas: I like the WebDX tracks
* Shubham: Can we write standards to streamline some of the webview use cases from the CG? E.g. Storage
* Niklas: Something the Embedding group could do
* Shubham: For example, on Android, the webview vendor can be toggled, can we standardize this?
* Brian: Aspects of the WebView UI are provided by the OS.
* Brian: There are gaps and we should document them. Build relevant BCD entries, etc.
* Brian: for new things like how to package and sign the packages, we need new standards
* Brian: More interested in new standard challenges
* Florian: Is there like “WebView considerations” in specifications? Would that be desirable?
* Florian: For security considerations, there are guidelines on how to author such sections for specifications, would be a start to provide such guidance for a potential “WebView considerations” section.
* Niklas: That’s interesting thought
* Niklas: We recently added WPE and Servo on caniwebview. Have look and let me know what you think
* Niklas: Martin currently works on adding arkweb to caniwebview.
* Shubham: Isnt this the same as chromium?
* Brian: Do you have any plans  on forming the scope of the new CG with a deadline?
* Niklas: I’ll sync with Martin and try to keep this forward. I’d like to set a deadline as well and at least have the CG for the next TPAC.

### Action items

* Niklas: Submit Joint Session for Embedding etc.
