# WebView CG Notes - 2024-06-28

## Attendees

* Niklas Merz (Apache Cordova)
* Ben Wiser (Android WebView)
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei)
* Mihai Cîrlănaru (Google WebView)
* Florian Scholz (Open Web Docs)
* Dominique Hazael-Massieux
* Bryan Ellis (Apache Cordova)

## Scribes

* Martin Alvarez

## Agenda

* Welcome & Introduction
    * Admin, who is the scribe?
* Discuss caniwebview.com ([repository](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project))
    * Discuss some of the documented capabilities [https://caniwebview.com/features/](https://caniwebview.com/features/)
* WebView survey
* TPAC 2024 ([draft](https://www.w3.org/2024/05/tpac2024-schedule-20240523.html))


## Notes

### Can I WebView

* Ben: CanIwebview based on BCD data.
* … two problems with this approach.
* … 1) Display of the data. Different ways to represent the information. 
* … 2) BCD currently, based on Android WebView, so can be confusing. 
* Niklas: I can present what is behavioural data and how we do it with BCD, tagging features…
* … no ideas yet, but we can discuss the best approach in this group.
* Ben: Tagging could be a good idea.
* Florian: We have two different data sources. 
* … Behavioural features @@@
* … In BCD we miss this type of information. 
* Ben: BCD linking to somewhere else. **It could be a good topic for discussion in TPAC**
* Florian: From BCD side we could include some linking external data.
* Niklas: Good idea. We can implement it easily from what we have now.
* … Maybe we can start with different colors, to differentiate the type of data.
* … Tagging to help find the right API that developers are looking for.
* Ben: I can draft some examples and share them through the chat.
* … Discussion about WebView2, adding support on BCD.
* Florian: It’s on me, but not time yet. We will see how we can do from MDN. On my todo list.
* Ben: Let me know if you need my external contribution.
* Ben: Any mechanism to collect the information?
* Florian: Manually. Allows you to send the PRs and select the type of info to represent. And running this in Selenium automatically.
    * [https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector)
    * [https://mdn-bcd-collector.gooborg.com/](https://mdn-bcd-collector.gooborg.com/)
    * [https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-results](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-results)
* Niklas: Thanks for the links. Not sure if Selenium can serve. I’ll have a look for WKWebView
* Florian: We have the concept of mirroring. Updating only the delta, based on an upstream server.
* … Another good topic for TPAC. Happy to discuss it there.
* Ben: Wellcome Dom.
* Dom: About TPAC. We invite groups to record videos to demonstrate and show what is the group about.
* … It could be used to show the differences between browsers/webViews, also the challenges.
* … Just a suggestion. Not sure if anyone would be interested in showing this.
* Ben: Would you mind opening an issue on this? Any reference we can have a look at?
* Dom: I’ll share some previous examples.
* Ben: Good agenda item for the next meeting. 
* Florian: this is the URL for Web Features: [https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/demos/web-features.html](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/demos/web-features.html)
* Florian: Only representing APIs?
* Ben: I’m in the process of cleaning it up. We use a plugin for updating. 
* … Pulling JSON and generating the pages.
* … It will be easy to contribute.
* [https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/blob/main/_plugins/genfeatures.rb](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/blob/main/_plugins/genfeatures.rb)


### TPAC 2024

* Ben: We’ll have two sessions. The calendar:[https://www.w3.org/calendar/tpac2024/](https://www.w3.org/calendar/tpac2024/)
* … We have spoken a lot about WebView compatibility. We may start a new discussion like recommendations (e.g., a threat model). 
* Dom: Good idea. The threat model could be interesting to explore. We may try to get the TAG involved. We can try.
* … Breakout session in TPAC. I may use a session, not on WebViews, but on how to architect non-browser specifications. Also involving topics from WINTER CG.
* … Groups that may be interested: EPUB, MiniApps, Web Media (TV sets, etc.).
* … Required preparation and coordination for this session. Not only these groups but also from TAG.
* … I assume that we could bring these people to the table. 
* … TPAC will be a good place for discussing this architectural discussion.
* Ben: super interesting idea. When we should propose the session?
* Dom: We can propose it until very late. A formal deadline is not a problem.
* Ben: The WebView is a part of the challenge.
* Dom: Having the community around in the TPAC will help.
* Ben: How we can contribute to the session?
* Dom: What you mentioned about the threat model is interesting. Still to think about how to articulate it.
* Mihai: Having a discussion on privacy and security could attract conversation with other vendors, also from the security groups. It would be great to reach a consensus on what a baseline for privacy and security looks like for webviews.
* … It’s a tool for developers, but we want to have all the users/stakeholders involved as well.  
* Niklas: I see from the user side that developers do not have access to the new browser features in Webviews.
* Ben: We can start drafting the agenda for the TPAC.
* Florian: WebDX will be also there. 
* … Not sure of the evolution of our activities here, but it will be a good opportunity to meet them.
* Dom: Good point to highlight what Niklas mentioned. Features not available in WebViews as soon as in browsers. Good for discussion.
* … About baseline, the common/widely available features in browsers. Including WebViews into baseline, it may be challenging, but we can discuss it.
* Ben: If we can set up the set of requirements for the WebViews baseline it would be great.
* Florian: So far collecting data from Android WebView. 
* Dom: Good idea to represent a first approach using that data. Showing the diff between "Baseline 2024" in browsers and what's actually available in WebViews would be a good way to raise awareness of the challenges that WebView developers face
* Ben: Anything we need to discuss there?
* Florian: I’m part of both groups so happy to be part.


### WebView survey

* Martin: Feedback from Chinese developers could bring insights into different webviews and from Mini apps
* … W3C China staff thinks it’s important to collect feedback with their survey forms
* … Martin has localized version of survey questions: [https://github.com/espinr/webview-survey/blob/chinese/README-zh_CN.md](https://github.com/espinr/webview-survey/blob/chinese/README-zh_CN.md) 
* … W3C China will help to run and reach out to communities
* Dom: WebDX has research workstreams to prioritize feature development
* … Could be discussed in joint meeting.
* …Last year state of HTML survey was very successful
* … Take lessons from Methodology and data collection from "State of HTML Survey 2023" - incl questions targeted to identify pain points
* … Try to reuse questions times for large survey
* Ben: Would be beneficial to discuss this during TPAC?
* Dom: Ideally I’d evaluate the results, but perhaps not realistic (summer period)
* … One thing we can discuss is launching first a small-scale survey (one-to-one interviews, small community survey…). Summertime is a challenge, but if we could have some early data to discuss at TPAC would be great.
* Ben: Good idea. Anyone could do something?
* Niklas: I can try to do something. We can synchronize, Martin.
* Ben: Martin, can the small-scale survey be in W3C China?
* Martin: Yes. I’ll approach them and see how we can make it. They are supportive.
* Action Item: Niklas and Martin to own a short-term survey
* Florian: something important to get feedback on questions like if webviews as part of the baseline.
* Ben: Anything else?
