# WebView CG Notes May 31, 2024

Link: [https://bit.ly/wv-cg-31-may](https://bit.ly/wv-cg-31-may)

## Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org)(Apache Cordova)
* Ben Wiser (Google WebView)
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei)
* Dominique Hazaël-Massieux (W3C)

## Scribes

* Ben Wiser (Google)

## Agenda

* Welcome & Introduction
  * Admin, who is the scribe?
* Present & Discuss new website caniwebview.com ([repository](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project))
  * Open PR: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/pull/23](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/pull/23)
  * Feedback from [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40284147#40284667)
  * Glossary: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/issues/20](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/issues/20)
  * Legend: [https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/issues/11](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/issues/11)
  * [Good first issues](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)
  * Discuss some of the documented capabilities [https://caniwebview.com/features/](https://caniwebview.com/features/)
* TPAC 2024 ([draft](https://www.w3.org/2024/05/tpac2024-schedule-20240523.html))

## Notes

### Can I WebView

* Discuss open pull request ([https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/pull/23](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/pull/23))
  * Niklas - like the pull request from the UX side, don’t like the loss of the markdown preview
  * Ben - goal was to make things like search easier, should make search easier in the future - wanted to make it a superset of the caniuse format so that it is backwards compatible
  * Dom - Is this data still markdown?
  * Ben - Yes, it is just string fields
  * Dom - Yeah, just not a fan of mixing markdown but we can move on
  * Dom - We will also support web features on this site in the future right?
    * Could this complement bcid?
  * Ben - Yes, I think that is important - hoping to focus on collecting more data and then we can format better at a later point
* Discuss hacker news feedback
  * Niklas - I’ve started compiling the feedback from here into issues, we can see there is a need here, and also that others do not understand what WebViews are
  * Dom - The fact that it made it to hackernews is a great sign that there is a community here
* Glossary
  * Niklas - The hackernews comments confirmed that this need is necessary, I’ve created an issue for this - we’ve taken a swing at this in the past, maybe we can re-use the definition
  * Ben - I think we should use what we have and iterate
  * Dom - We can put the worst definition online and then we will get lots of feedback (Notetakers footnote, this was a funny joke)
* Legend
  * Ben - So this data is telling us the document support rather than the support of the feature
  * Dom - The documented status is important for us to know
    * The fact that we are documenting abstract behaviors rather than abstract behaviors makes this tricky
    * Seems like once we reach a point of what the correct definitions of behaviours are, we can’t define supported as well
  * Ben - Big plus one
  * Martin - Something that is not clear to me is mixed support, it does not seem intuitive
  * Niklas - Yes not clear what the difference is
  * Niklas - Would be great to have a leaderboard
  * Ben - We can offload a lot stuff over to github, it probably makes the most sense to just focus collecting a lot of data
  * Niklas - We can copy the caniuse legend for the moment
* Goodfirst issues
  * Niklas - I have added labels for good first issues to start directing people to things that need to be done
  * Ben - This could be a good ingestion point for the survey to add features people are curious about

### TPAC 2024

* Ben - Does everyone in the group think it would be beneficial to host a meeting?
* Dom - I think it would be good opportunity to build momentum
  * Dom - I would also appreciate a breakout: Should we see WebView specificity in web features
  * Ben - Are you okay creating a proposal for the next meeting?
  * Dom - I’m happy to shape the scope, I wouldn’t be driving it
* Martin - Think it would be good opportunity to attract more people
* Ben - I will take an AI to prepare a TPAC topic for the next meeting
* Dom - Niklas, can you attend?
  * Niklas - Need to get funding
  * Dom - reach out to me if you have trouble getting funding
