# WebView CG Notes - 2024-03-28

## Attendees

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org)(Apache Cordova)
* Dominique Hazael-Massieux
* Bryan Ellis

## Scribes

* [Niklas Merz](mailto:niklasmerz@apache.org)

## Agenda

* Welcome & Introduction
  * Admin, who is the scribe?
* Discuss state and progress of WebView survey ([repository](https://github.com/WebView-CG/webview-survey))
* Kick off WebView Compat Project ([repository](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project))

## Notes

* Niklas started by sharing the content of the compat data repository.
* The compatibility data project has been split into two further sub-projects:
  * Web platform compatibility data
  * Behavioral compatibility
* The machine readable web platform compat data is to be investigated with regards to get tools like BCD collector working
* The behavioral data we would like to collect in markdown files in the repository. Ben already submitted a template and some examples.
* We can link the behavior descriptions to our work on the usages and challenges report.
* Dom brought up the idea of publishing this on a website with a cool name like caniwebview.com to generate publicity and encourage people and vendors to document behavior. This follows our model caniuse.com and the recently launched caniemail.com
* Dom: WebDX community group is looking for a better experience for webdevs. Web features catalog program based on browser compat data. Cartography of platform for caniuse & MDN. Data for recognisable names for WebAPIs. Baseline label for well supported APIs. Web feature catalog is discussing how to name features which share similarities to our behaviors. Discussions on principals on naming and defining. Florian and Francois are into that group.
* Dom: WebViews like GeckoView and Meta Webview may want to get involved, too and we could reach out.
* Bryan can help describing issues with experience from Cordova
* Dom: We could also provide useful links to bug trackers for documenting behavior and possible past or upcoming changes hidden in there.
* Niklas did a short catch up on the survey
* There are issues in the survey repository which define audiences and possible questions for places to ask.
* Dom: A big advantage of a new website is that it can also survey and if we run the survey somewhere we can advertise the behavior data.
* Niklas: Right now there is no real places where WebView developers are and they are active in different communities for many platforms
* Dom: A website like this can create a neutral place
* Niklas: We would like to run survey & compat in parallel
* Niklas closing: I will get started on the behavior data and set up a website. Then we can promote this in the group and get people and data on board.
