# WebView CG Notes - 2024-04-26

# Attendees
- Niklas Merz (Apache Cordova)
- François Daoust (W3C)
- Maxim Tsoy (DuckDuckGo)
- Martin Alvarez (Huawei)
- Bryan Ellis (Apache Cordova)
- Abhijeet Kandalkar (Igalia)

# Scribes
- François Daoust

## Agenda
1. Welcome & Introduction
2. Admin, who is the scribe?
3. Present & Discuss new website caniwebview.com (repository)
    - [caniwebview.com issues](https://github.com/WebView-CG/Compatibility-Data-Project/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acaniwebview)
    - Site Design
    - Naming things
    - Discuss some of the documented capabilities [caniwebview.com/features](https://caniwebview.com/features/)
4. Anything new about the survey? (repository)

## Notes
### Can I WebView
- Niklas: Dom came up with the idea of making a "Can I webview" site for people to discover features that WebViews support. Bryan and I went ahead, creating a site and deploying it to a domain. I would like to ask you for feedback on this. Anything we should change at this early stage?
- Max: I like this idea. DuckDuckGo already links to it in a few places internally, even though it's mostly empty. Right now, it's mainly manual. I understand it makes sense for some features. But, for Web APIs, I wonder whether there are plans to pull existing data from other sources, MDN, or web-features.
- Niklas: Yes, that's a good point. Two types of compatibility data. Web APIs, which is typical Web APIs compatibility. This is something we should automate. And then behavior, which is less web related. This is mostly the content that we have on the website for now. Example of "local content". Not a standard, not an API, but the behavior exists across platforms. It's more a description for each platform. It's a hard thing to name it.
- Francois: Discussed in WebDX CG. web-features can initially provide the catalog of features with identifiers, names, and descriptions that could feed Can I WebView. WebView support is not collected in web-features today but could be derived from BCD data (web-features builds on top of BCD).
- Max: Can we already use that and pull data in Can I WebView?
- Bryan: web-features appears to be about APIs. I think we're more referring to WebView APIs, less to browser APIs. Sandboxing is a security feature that browsers implement, for instance. But WebViews have their own perspective. That's the current focus of the effort.
- Discussion on benefits of reusing data from existing sources that other consumers also use. Goal is also to improve data in BCD. Whether to feature the data on Web APIs on Can I WebView, MDN, Can I Use remains an open question.
- Max: Arguably, what's currently under the Web API probably belongs to WebView APIs, e.g., cookies which refers to native WebView APIs. What I had in mind is that the Web API category would directly list JavaScript APIs.
- Niklas: For Web APIs, we could just pull data from Can I Use.
- Max: Concrete next step would be to integrate with existing data.
- Francois: Recommend building on something that builds on top of BCD. For example, improving "Can I Use" data is useful but would not propagate to MDN. This is where web-features could help because it provides a coarser view of BCD keys.
- Niklas: On the look-and-feel, any idea of how to improve? You may comment through GitHub issues.
- Max: That seems lower priority right now. It would be good to have some distinct colors.
- Niklas: Also question on what supported means?
- Max: For some native APIs, I don't even know if it makes sense to compare them since they're different.
- Niklas: "Possible" and "Documented"
- Max: What if we didn't do it for native APIs? And only do it for Web APIs?
- Niklas: That makes sense. I will introduce some color scheme for this.
- Niklas: Any volunteer to do something?
- Abhijeet: Would it be useful to have a glossary of terms we're using on the platform? E.g., Native WebView API?
- Niklas: That's a great idea.
- Francois: Echoing the recent experience with web-features. Short descriptions have just been added, that proves a very useful exercise to define and scope the features.
- Niklas: Thanks for the ideas during the meeting. We'll work on them and call for help!

# Anything new about the survey?
- Niklas: No progress to report. Let's focus on Can I WebView until we have new people and progress there.
