# [TPAC] WebView CG Notes

## Attendees

* Ben Wiser (Google Android)
* Niklas Merz (Apache Cordova)
* Dominique Hazael-Massieux (W3C)
* Sam Weiss (Meta)
* Andrew Comminos (Meta)
* Brian Strauch (Meta)
* Joey Knightbrook (Snap)
* Mihai Cîrlănaru (Google Android)
* Florian Scholz (Open Web Docs)
* Kadir Topal (Google)
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei)
* Aram Zucker-Scharff (The Washington Post)
* Xiaocheng Hu (Huawei)
* Shouqun Liu (ByteDance)
* Yujie Hao (TikTok)
* Sebastian Käbisch (Siemens)

## Scribes

* Ben Wiser (Google Android)

### I’m interested in joining the force

* Ben Wiser
* Florian Scholz (Open Web Docs)
* Aram Zucker-Scharff (The Washington Post)
* Mihai Cîrlănaru (Google Android)
* Martin Alvarez (Huawei)
* Shouqun Liu (ByteDance)
* Xiaocheng Hu (Huawei)
* Yujie Hao (TikTok)
* Andrew Comminos (Meta)

## Notes

Slides: [https://webview-cg.github.io/tpac/TPAC-2024/WebViewCG/Thursday.html](https://webview-cg.github.io/tpac/TPAC-2024/WebViewCG/Thursday.html)


* **State of WebView report**
    * Niklas: Demonstrating caniwebview.com
        * We have behavioural data
        * We have more bcd data now for WKWebView as well now
            * We’d like to show the delta as well now
            * We’d also like to display the baseline expectations there
    * Ben: Proposed a state of WebViews report
    * Niklas: Asked who is working on the WebDX web features - how does funding work?
    * Dom: Web features started as a WebDX experimental project
        * In terms of the effort of the project now, there are a lot of resources invested in this effort now
        * Turning this around, there has been a recognition that the clarity around the web platform is beneficial - there is a catch 22 of demonstrating value to encourage further resources
    * Kadir: To be more specific, Google is employing contractors for the mapping of the data
        * Once everything was mapped, Daniel Beck (?) has been leading on that to go through the backlog of 15k bcd keys - Microsoft is also contributing to this
        * We do get contributions to web features but expect more involvement once we have caught up on backlog
        * We are updating the process in Chrome to require mapping for features
    * Dom: An important part of this is also to make sure docs are in a clear state to support this so folk can actually get on boarded; want to improve self service onboarding process
    * Niklas: Key takeaway, we need to think about the incentives to support this data. For web platform, this is solved, but for behavioral, a lot harder.
    * Dom: One project I might suggest for behavioral, is to do preliminary research around areas we are interested in and what the potential convergences paths are.
    * Ben: +1 - the group can focus on categories as opposed to the areas themselves
    * Dom: Can we chat to the vendors around the room to find out how feasible the various work streams can for convergence be - can move towards a more realistic place
    * Niklas: At some point we started working on explainers, but might want to go back to those
    * Dom: I would put that in the agenda, but first try 1:1 contact
    * Ben: Its all about cost and benefit - we need to present the benefit to vendors as well as part of these conversations
    * Dom: Two parts - The value of convergence is harder to sell to single vendor, but easier to whole community, but also demonstrate what isn’t being shipped because of these difficulties
    * Dom: Understanding the cost of breaking changes will help with the feasibility assessment
    * Ben: Having contacts on those requests and showing who wants these features would help motivate vendors more
    * Dom: Developer research is key to getting those contacts - the more data we have to back the requests, the more movement we can make
    * Ben: Next step, we will create the group - we will categorize issues, then survey developers on top issues, so that we can head to vendors and see what issues they want to solve
    * Niklas: Shifting to ultimate home of report
        * Dom: caniwebview serves as a convergence point for this data; regarding the intermediate steps for grabbing data and reaching out to vendors, the data should go to the explainers themselves - caniwebview is the north star but what we really want is to improve the state of things
* **Open Discussion**
    * Aram: I’m here because we spend a lot of time on WebViews. A lot of our content can only work on the web. I’m very interested in WebViews being more capable in sharing state with the browser. Log in is *the* top complaint (of a lot of complaints). It also makes it more difficult to retain consent information with regards to the WebView - the app and the WebView can have different states. In iOS, we just deal with this by opting out all users but on Android this is more difficult.
    * Dom: @Niklas - do you recall if we had challenges around this issue?
        * Niklas: This particular consent issue is a new thing and should be written down
        * Aram: Glad to help document this
        * Andrew: This is one of our largest complaints for our browser in Facebook
        * Dom: In general, it sounds like there would need to be some sort of OS level support around this? When dealing with the facebook app, there are interesting security challenges around this to address.
        * Ben: It would be helpful to understand why custom tabs are not able to cover your needs.
        * Aram: In our current testing, if Chrome is not the primary browser, it does not open in the current browser.
        * Niklas: For apps like fb, why is WebView so popular instead of the default browser?
        * Andrew: From the mobile app developer perspective, that is less integration. We are also able to push the boundaries to innovate on user experiences.
        * Aram: Getting access to the data from the app into the webview is important because it allows us to customize the webview experience to make it more ‘app-like’.
    * Shouqun: Currently leading the cross platform team. We rely on a lot of different WebViews, and see a lot of fragmentation across these platforms. Especially on the desktop platforms. This ends up requiring a lot of engineering effort. We also see a lot of performance issues, especially on Android. On the PC platform, the performance and fragmentation keeps getting worse. We are currently maintaining our own branch of chromium for desktop but that is a major cost.
    * Mihai: Wanted to touch a bit more on the in app browsing. Custom tabs were called out.  Browsers do need to support this. Would like to understand the user experience more around the shared state. Has anyone in this group tried to find ways around this? Specifically around making users aware of the state being shared.
        * Andrew: Can you clarify?
        * Mihai: What the UX is to make it clearer to users that in-app browsing is occurring. The content is not related to the app.
        * Andrew: UX understand that they are in the Facebook app.
    * Joey (Snapchat): I work on snapchat. I am here to gather information and go back to the snapchat team.
    * Yujie (TikTok): We have previously discussed choosing between WebView and CT. One reason is to customize the UI, users want to open a link and feel like they are still in the app - eg: customized loading and error pages. Another reason is to track user experience around things like page load times.
    * Sebastian: We have an issue in the web of things around showing the runtime information of IoT devices. We keep running into cross origin problems. All these devices have their own endpoints. We end up having to make a singular endpoint to consolidate these devices. Would be happy to provide supporting data.
        * Niklas: I have looked into cross origin 
        * Ben: is the challenge more around local network IoT devices and the way they are accessed?
            * Sebastian: it would be helpful to work locally, but not restrict it to just that
    * Xiaocheng: Our team work on harmony OS - we have a chromium based WebView, not based on android webview. We have spoken about in-app browsing a lot, but there are apps that want to replicate the native app experience. In these cases, the requirements are the opposite from the in app browsing. We don’t want the user to think they are in a browser.
        * Niklas: As an Apache cordova developer, this very much rings true.
    * Ben:  Aram you raised two issues: login and identity. There are solutions like passkeys and FedCM. There are ideas to talk more to the OS in this case.
    * Aram: Depends how it’s executed. If FedCM is working in WebView it would solve this. But localstorage and cookies also set settings for the experience. Wouldn’t help with anonymous users and their opt-out settings. We’ve been experimenting with FedCM last week. Shared login state is a big problem and solving that would be very helpful.
    * Ben: Sharing state is a common challenge. Not leak state tot all apps
    * Shouqun: Regarding custom tabs, we have found that this is highly bound to Chrome - if Chrome isn’t installed, we need a fallback. We currently rely heavily on the WebView APIs.  In our use case, we also don’t want to render the whole page but just particular parts of the content, and render other parts with native content.
    * Mihai: I don’t have insights into custom tabs because I work on Android WebView, but I know other browser vendors can support custom tabs. Fully understand the use case around split screens. Regarding APIs, you mean the native APIs?
        * Shouqun: I will add the APIs to the document later.
            * [https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView#evaluateJavascript(java.lang.String,%20android.webkit.ValueCallback%3Cjava.lang.String%3E)](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView#evaluateJavascript(java.lang.String,%20android.webkit.ValueCallback%3Cjava.lang.String%3E)) 
            * [https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebViewClient#shouldInterceptRequest(android.webkit.WebView,%20android.webkit.WebResourceRequest)](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebViewClient#shouldInterceptRequest(android.webkit.WebView,%20android.webkit.WebResourceRequest)) 
        * Niklas: I can add that firefox has also implemented custom tabs.
        * Mihai: [Partial custom tabs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/android/custom-tabs/guide-partial-custom-tabs) are also a thing where you can display content on half of the screen.
    * Kadir: One thing I would be interested in from users that use WebViews. Do we have feedback from developers?
        * Andrew: We do come across awareness issues. We want our browser to be on the critical path to testing. A lot of feedback we get are from publishers - ie: vendors running ad campaigns.
        * Kadir: Is there anything recurring?
            * Andrew: Yes, service workers. Third party cookies on some platforms.
        * Dom: Some rare developers know how to report issues to big browsers. Do developers know how to report to facebook?
        * Andrew: We publish this for advertisers. Our support channels are typically how we get feedback. There are also organic processes and there is limited visibility into that use case.
    * Mihai: Very interested from the other embedded web browsers how they keep up with web compat. Do you support origin trials for experimental APIs?
        * Andrew: We haven’t crossed that bridge yet. We haven’t materially diverged.
    * Niklas: Would like to discuss the state of WebView survey.
        * We ran a shorter survey, we would like to run a larger one.
        * Providing summary from discussion on Tuesday.
        * Kadir: In terms of audiences - what matters is what we expect in terms of problems reported, if the developers have different issues, it makes sense to have separate surveys. On the flip side, need to make sure you reach an audience that is large enough, it is already a challenge to reach developers for the state of CSS. Perhaps if it is small enough, it is easier to target developers. Have decided to not do surveys in the past because we have decided it would not have hit a number of users.
            * Niklas: How many responses would you typically expect?
            * Kadir: One challenge is that we don’t know what the population is. The developers are often also not random but self selecting. So you can only use descriptive statistics for this. So we can only really say the more the better. The smallest state of survey we had was 7000 responses, the mdn one last year was 30 000 responses. Generally tracks that the more the better.
            * Niklas: Might be worth reaching out to vendors that have developer audiences.
            * Ben: One way of thinking about this is to also reach out to specific developers so that we can get broader feedback from users.
        * Dom: Distinguishing between WebView usage seems beneficial, there are a lot of different players in this state. Re-using existing communities who already have some sense of targeting would be super beneficial.
        * Nikas: Maybe we should go a step back first, just ask web developers if they use webview, or develop for WebViews.
            * Dom: a very short survey in this space would be great. We could ask a trick question like “how many views do you think you get in WebViews”
        * Aram: I wanted to flag that I don’t think most developers don’t test in WebViews unless they have an app. Improve tooling. Tooling could be on caniwebview
            * Ben: Perhaps something like browser stack?
            * Dom: This becomes a lot easier if it is a CI like platform.
            * AI: Sounds like we could just potentially reach out to browser stack.
            * Aram: If there were official test apps as well, this could be super helpful developers
        * Andrew: We have thought about this as well - the ability to turn on and off features also makes this a challenge
        * Aram: Even just having a basic app would help a ton and provide a ton of feedback
